1
 Dr.  In the absence of human qualities, human life is meaningless:-
 kindness, compassion, friendship, service,
 void of these qualities
 The person who has a heart for animals
 Even if that person goes to Sthanaks or Upasas
 That's why it is said-
 Without mercy, everything is a lie, says Maluk Thoughts. What should be the conduct of a human being? What a beautiful discussion the poet has given regarding the conduct of a human being: -
 Madhyastha Bhav, Viparita Vrittau, Always Mamatma Viddhaatu Dev. That is, to have a selfless attitude towards all the living beings in the world, to be present in all the living beings in the same way as your soul.
 To be happy after seeing the virtuous, to relieve the suffering of the poor.
 like this
 Vigilance and proper efforts are necessary to achieve the goal-
 If a raw pitcher is filled with nectar
 There is a pile of filth lying rotting in the house and no matter how much perfume is sprinkled there
 Just as long as the body, mind and soul
 It is better to eat non-edible food without any remedies or to aggravate the disorders.
 Therefore, the diet which enhances human qualities in humans
 How is the food? Just as the efficiency of machinery depends on the quality and quantity of its fuel. of good harvest
 In the same way human life and
 construction of various body parts
 Whatever elements enter the body through food, affect the body.
 Drinking alcohol will cause intoxication, intoxication and consumption of poison will show its effects. then again
 Wine and poison do not see that consuming
 He has straight principles. It will make its mark on the chemistry of the body. disorganized
 We should make the stomach a medium of energy through food and not a warehouse full of waste.
 Therefore, wise people should use discretion as well as taste regarding food.
 Types of food :-
 (1) Oz Diet, (2)
 The food received by an organism while adopting a new body is called Oz diet.
 The air and water that the body hairs absorb from the atmosphere is called food of the hair. by mouth
 The subject of all our discussions was only diet, non-vegetarian food and
 Moving, conscious beings or their state
 All other types of food come under the category of vegetarianism. There are many thinkers who believe in taking food from the earth.
 But this does not seem 100% correct from many points of view. One of the scientists with such mentality is to consider mother's milk or the milk of other animals and birds as non-vegetarian.
 Non-edible food:- In our scriptures, five types of food have been declared non-edible for humans -
 like
 2. Polygamous origin:- In which there is violence against many unicentric organisms. Like onion, garlic, jamikand (ground
 3. Intoxicant:- Those which cause intoxication. Like alcohol, tobacco, gutka, betel pollen and other such food items. 3
 like feces, urine,
 animal food like hay, straw etc.
 5. Harmful:- Which is not favorable for the body. Like sugar for diabetic patients, heart patients
 Food should be non-violent:-
 The basis should always be strong and not compulsion, carelessness, ignorance.
 This is both necessary and a warning for us. feed us like this
 It is an eternal principle of nature that any living being suffers directly or indirectly.
 Shedding the blood of innocents is not the honor of humanity. Hindu, Muslim, do you remember, don't you remember Geeta and Quran? Sometimes we do not accept this eternal truth because we do not get immediate reward. according to us or
 Not being punished in the first attempt of a crime, if
 Non-vegetarian food is against nature and health:-
 Herbivorous animals have flat molar teeth. claws not sharp nails
 2. The lower jaws of carnivorous animals move only up and down and they eat their food without chewing.
 The lower jaws of herbivorous animals can move up, down, left and right and they
 3. The tongues of carnivorous animals are rough. They stick out their tongue and drink water with it. vegetarian
 They do not take out their tongue to drink water but drink it through their lips.
 4. The length of the intestines of carnivorous animals is short, almost beyond the length of their body and the trunk.
 Due to the small size of the intestines, they are able to digest the meat even before it rots and becomes poisonous.
 The intestines of herbivorous animals are longer, almost
 That's why they eat meat
 4
 The liver and kidneys of herbivorous animals are also smaller in proportion and the waste of meat cannot be digested.
 6. The digestive organs of carnivorous animals have about ten times more iron than the digestive organs of herbivores.
 in the digestive organs of herbivores
 Hence meat cannot be digested easily. 7. The saliva of carnivorous animals is acidic. The saliva of herbivorous animals is alkaline and their saliva contains
 8. The sense of smell of carnivorous creatures is very strong, their eyes shine at night and even during night they can be seen during the day.
 These powers help him in hunting. sense of smell in herbivores
 9. Herbivorous animals sweat more whereas carnivorous animals generally do not sweat. 10. Human anatomy like pupils of eyes, ratio of neck and intestines, chemistry of blood
 The whole world is aware of the ill effects of tricking vegetarian cows into eating non-vegetarian food in Britain.
 There is no need to explain whether this is the madness of a cow or the madness of a human being. Man is vegetarian by nature, non-vegetarian food is not suitable for him. Animals are also creatures like humans, they are not nuts, fruits or flowers. 11. Only by balancing Aadhi (mental), Vyaadhi (physical), Upadhiya (spiritual) can one attain Samadhi, peace, happiness and
 12. Are the animals killed for meat? The health of those animals is tested? somewhere
 Eating animal diseases and pus along with meat
 Does boiling poison turn into nectar? That is why it is said-
 So why do you eat, the mouthless pots? 13. Do animals willingly die while laughing? The cruelty, cruelty and brutality with which they are killed. that
 The person who eats such meat has compassion, empathy, sympathy,
 Cruelty, excitement and violent thoughts in the mind
 Besides, eating non-vegetarian causes and increases hundreds of diseases. That's why the US government
 14. After death in conscious living beings, harmful germs are produced more and more quickly. this
 attend funeral procession
 Do you eat the meat of animals as soon as they are slaughtered?
 If not, then germs of disease may grow in it and the surrounding environment will not be contaminated.
 Is the human stomach a dustbin in which we can put anything whenever we want, whatever we want, as much as we want? Isn't the stomach of carnivores a graveyard of dead animals? 15. When any patient needs blood, the doctor gives blood of that patient's group only.
 Can non-vegetarians claim that part of the blood that enters the stomach along with meat is
 Will blood and flesh with opposite qualities cause harm to the body? that's why
 16. Non-vegetarian food disrupts the digestive system. It turns saliva from alkali to acid. hence in saliva
 As important as food is, its digestion is even more important. so our
 If petrol car is fueled by diesel or kerosene
 There is a greater possibility of a defect occurring in it. exactly the same way
 world
 17. Non-vegetarian food reduces the symbolic power of the body. Bones become weak. Memory power decreases. Man cannot remain stable in meditation. Man is cruel, violent, manless, lustful, angry, irritable.
 That is why meat is usually eaten only by vegetarian animals? मांसाहारी
जानवरों का क्यों नहीं? 18. Vegetarian people suffer from less diseases and live longer than non-vegetarians. 19. Horses are completely vegetarian, yet the measure of strength is in horse power. Not in lion power? Hence
 20. Vegetarianism is not just a diet but a lifestyle. It is a symbol of self-discipline. It is an inhibitor of desires. It is the foundation of a restrained, disciplined life. 21. Eating non-vegetarian increases vengeful tendencies and vices. People with vengeful tendencies generally cannot do hard work. He will always seek comfort. If he gets a chance to lie down, he will not sit. if to stand
 If he gets a chance to walk, he will not run. non-vegetarian person for a long time
 22. Can a child eat non-vegetarian food as soon as he is born? No, not at all? any vegetarian human being is perfect
 he is also vegetarian
 Therefore, non-vegetarian food cannot be human food. 23. Food alone is not the cause of disease. Therefore, it is not right to think that a vegetarian never gets sick.
 Always remain healthy. In comparison, non-vegetarians are more sick, criminal, impractical,
 24. By eating non-vegetarian food, a person goes into the lower stage of life. Non-vegetarian food is also the main reason for going to hell.
 25. Meat is unpleasant to look at and even to smell. 26. Modern science considers humans as descendants of monkeys. But monkeys are completely vegetarian. Therefore, those who accept every fact on scientific basis only, have no problem in accepting this.
 Ignorance is the root of sorrows:-
 To justify their eating habits, they resort to various nonsensical, irrelevant
 For the virtues acquired by a few persons
 Due to the illusion of considering oneself the best, almighty, civilized, progressive
 to oneself
 even in lakhs of rupees
 like this
 That is why some poet has said in a challenging tone -
 Due to sorrow in the heart, the cruel person will be reduced to ashes. 7
 Every person's effort is to achieve peace, happiness, health, joy and happiness in life. He has a feeling of doing the work which benefits him. No person should behave like this
 The question arises, why does a person eat non-vegetarian food? what
 What are the pros and cons of non-vegetarian food?
 All living beings in nature want to live. Nobody wants to die. human wise
 the soul that we
 It is a symbol of human selfishness. of strength
 It is a sign of madness. Violent attitude is a stain on humanity. generally meaty taste, strength
 It is a completely false belief that eating non-vegetarian brings strength. in war
 But non-vegetarian food enslaves the mind and corrupts the soul. Therefore, from non-vegetarian food
 Those who eat non-vegetarian will enjoy two inches for taste.
 The digestive system deteriorates and the entire body suffers from disease. non-vegetarian food for fashion
 Orthodox beliefs like animal sacrifice and Kubrani in the name of religion
 Today, when many food options are available, killing animals for non-vegetarian food is never justified.
 All living beings, whether humans or animals or birds, being members of nature's family, are intrinsically
 Just as no person eats the flesh of his relatives, in the same way he abstained from non-vegetarian food.
 Eating non-vegetarian is not a compulsion for humans. Hence, non-vegetarian food clearly leads to distortion of human brain.
 That is why great men have clearly said-
 Don't hurt anyone's heart, everyone loves their life. Categories of non-vegetarians:-
 carnivorous families
 what to eat? What not to eat? Why eat? Why not eat? Does he not think about it? They are blindly imitating what has been done.
 Their values become so mature that despite knowing and accepting the ill effects of non-vegetarian food, their morale remains strong.
 Despite many people being born and brought up in the traditions of vegetarianism,
 The number of such people is high due to the increasing non-vegetarianism in India. Most people know this
 If a person kills an animal cruelly, mercilessly
 Whatever the reason, eating meat
 Non-vegetarian food and economic perspective:-
 Life is priceless. Therefore, things which do not harm anyone
 2. To produce one kilo of meat, seventy kilos of grass has to be fed to the animals. for that grain
 Non-vegetarian food and environment :-
 श्ल्वक ह्पामे इन्ज उंड हम्जे
 Everyone has their own role in keeping nature's environment balanced and preventing pollution. If we this
 Like for eating some plants, for eating some animals and birds.
 Some trees and plants attract rain and some
 Natural disasters occur only when necessary tampering with nature occurs. 2. Who is not familiar with the effect of waves today? Waves of programs broadcast from TV, radio, in a matter of moments
 How do distance and Reiki healers treat a person thousands of miles away?
 Photographs of the smallest parts of the body, such as a drop of blood, hair, nails, etc., by the Dowsing method.
 It is clear that the effect of waves emanating from a substance does not end immediately. then
 It will definitely distort the thoughts, lifestyle and thinking of those who eat meat. Their aura will be polluted. Clean and pure aura keeps the Ujra Chakras of the body balanced.
 Which is necessary for physical, mental and spiritual development. 3. Today there is so much violence, terror, intolerance, cruelty, murders, stress, fear, restlessness etc. mental pollution.
 No living being wants to die voluntarily. Animals and birds all want to escape from death.
 Therefore, while slaughtering the animal
 While being killed the animal screams, shouts, cries,
 is horrified and frightened and angry due to which
 The curses that come out of him are those who are going to kill him, to get him killed.
 like this
 When someone's blessings and good feelings do good to us,
 There should not be the slightest doubt in this. Non-vegetarian food is not justified? 1. If someone eats a human being, he is called a man-eater. People don't want such animals to survive.
 But a non-vegetarian kills and eats so many animals throughout his life, yet such a human being is considered civilized,
 2. Satwant Singh, who assassinated Indira Gandhi, and Nathuram Godse, the assassin of Mahatma Gandhi, were convicted of murder.
 case as per court rules
 The government incurred expenditure of crores of rupees. Those who killed such great national leaders
 The reason for this is justice
 hence innocent
 of nature
 “Whatever you do, you will get the result”, “Whoever you help in killing, you will be killed by him.” ''of nature''
 He who denies this unbreakable principle of nature,
 Those who cut the throats of others, are cutting their own throats. In Sai's court, revenge should not go anywhere. 3. Depriving living beings of the right to survive is a clear violation of the principles of justice, ethics and karmashastras.
 4. If someone hurts others, he too has to suffer the same in future. this action and its result
 Therefore, those who desire happiness and peace should not harm other living beings either directly or indirectly.
 Impact of illusive, misleading propaganda about food:-
 Allopathic physicians propound tables based on the availability of essential elements in food. In this age of misleading, illusionary and false data claims, most of the people are peking, cast from above.
 digestion
 Most of the people start eating whenever they feel like it, whatever feels good. Thoughts about food often dormant
 Which cause disease in future. Hence today Thapatji Bvadjatvas (control of birth) and Kmanji
 hotel and
 Non-vegetarianism and spirituality:-
 First of all, raising animals is fine.
 That's why all the religious people
 But his followers, due to their greedy tendencies, in the name of religion
 Usually, any religious ritual is performed in religious places.
 If there was religion in Kubrani, then Kubrani would not have been prohibited in mosques. In the religion of Islam, Prophet Mohammad Saheb, while saying his words in the holy book 'Hawis', said that all
 Be kind to the people of the world, because God has been very kind to you. in islam
 A Muslim cannot take even a single drop of blood in his mouth. without blood
 Therefore, how can one who wants to avoid blood be a non-vegetarian? the merciful one
 The child who is devoted to his parents, the devotee to his God and the disciple to his Guru.
 It is written in the Quran Sharif in the description of Hajj in Sura Bakar. killing animals and destroying agriculture
 Quran Hakim has made it clear in Surat Alhaj 32-22 that neither the meat of animals nor
 In Islam, the rights of animals have been given great importance and human
 In Guru Granth Sahib's Bar Manas Mahalla Part One page 140, Guru Nanak Dev said, "If there is blood on the clothes,
 Nanak Prakash
 ,  Jesus
 Jesus Christ in the Gospel of Peace of Jesus Christ
 those who died
 "Do not kill the voiceless nor kill your innocent
 They further say that if you are a vegetarian
 "Because only from life we get life, from death there is always death."
 Non-violence is the soul of Jain, Buddhist and Hindu religions. What I mean to say is that no religion is free from violence, cruelty.
 What is not the contradiction in his conduct? That's why
 Tulsi, don't give up your kindness until your life is short. Government policies :-
 From where truth, non-violence, kindness and compassion
 Agriculture Ministry to ban non-vegetarian food
 Ministry of Education on the ill effects of non-vegetarian food
 Meat advertising is banned in America,
 Health Ministry for its insensitivity, immorality,
 As a result of which there is a continuous increase in the number of diseases and patients in India.
 Animal welfare department talks about not carrying excessive burden on animals and punishment for causing pain to them.
 What kind of law is this? animal welfare
 meat industry first
 As long as with politics
 depicting the state of the nation
 Even in violence, corruption and injustice,
 Are we conscious about our health? Some things are under our control. depend on our discretion and proper thinking, while some
 Like water provided by Municipal Corporation, noise pollution in cities
 As a result, today's humans are eating things that should not be eaten. not to drink
 Eating even without hunger. Eating more than his hunger. Famine means eating even at night. Eating indigestible and inedible also. Still he considers himself intelligent. So keep yourself healthy
 like what to eat and
 When to eat and when not to eat and why? How to eat and how not to eat? where to eat
 How to cook? How to cook? How to feed etc? Is the food digestible? sacred
 The more conscious a person is regarding the above mentioned things, the more successful he will be.
 Can an intelligent person be a non-vegetarian? Who is intelligent? :- Protecting your health or neglecting it? make good use of your abilities
 Kind or cruel, selfish or altruistic? Non-violent or violent? One who practices friendship and love towards other living beings or spreads malice and hatred
 One who follows the principles of live and let live or one who hurts others for selfish reasons or
 It is on the basis of the above criteria that a human being can be considered civilized, alert, virtuous and intelligent or
 Based on our eating habits, we ourselves
 The summary is that non-vegetarian food is harmful from health point of view, costly from economic point of view and bad from spiritual point of view.
 Therefore, those who eat non-vegetarian food, those who encourage others to do so, or those who consider those who do so are good, are all unaware.
 Are uncultured. It is inhuman. The slaves of our sense of taste are greedy for taste. Are dependent and dependent. Are indifferent. Are confused. He is not honest even with himself. In reality, those who know evil, despite believing in it,
 